AUTHORS.rst
LICENSE.txt
README.md
setup.py
kilojoule/__init__.py
kilojoule/_version.py
kilojoule/chemical.py
kilojoule/common.py
kilojoule/constants.py
kilojoule/display.py
kilojoule/humidair.py
kilojoule/idealgas.py
kilojoule/magics.py
kilojoule/organization.py
kilojoule/plotting.py
kilojoule/realfluid.py
kilojoule/solution_hash.py
kilojoule/solve.py
kilojoule/transport.py
kilojoule/units.py
kilojoule.egg-info/PKG-INFO
kilojoule.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
kilojoule.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
kilojoule.egg-info/requires.txt
kilojoule.egg-info/top_level.txt
kilojoule/schemdraw/__init__.py
kilojoule/schemdraw/thermo/__init__.py
kilojoule/schemdraw/thermo/common.py
kilojoule/schemdraw/thermo/compressor.py
kilojoule/schemdraw/thermo/hx.py
kilojoule/schemdraw/thermo/pipe.py
kilojoule/schemdraw/thermo/piston.py
kilojoule/schemdraw/thermo/pump.py
kilojoule/schemdraw/thermo/shaft.py
kilojoule/schemdraw/thermo/turbine.py
kilojoule/schemdraw/thermo/valve.py
kilojoule/tables/Appendix1_SIunits.pdf
kilojoule/tables/Bergman.py
kilojoule/tables/Cengel.py
kilojoule/tables/__init__.py
kilojoule/tables/air.py
kilojoule/tables/extract_data.ipynb
kilojoule/tables/water.py
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/H2.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/He.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/N2.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/O2.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/Steam.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/air.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/ammonia.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/co.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/co2.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/engine_oil_unused.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/ethylene_glycol.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/glycerin.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/mercury.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/r134a.csv
kilojoule/tables/Bergman Data/r22.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A1.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A17.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A18.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A19.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A20.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A21.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A22.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A23.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A24.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A25.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A26.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A27.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A28.csv
kilojoule/tables/Cengel Data/A3.csv
kilojoule/templates/SI.py
kilojoule/templates/SI_C.py
kilojoule/templates/USCS_F.py
kilojoule/templates/USCS_R.py
kilojoule/templates/__init__.py
kilojoule/templates/colab.py
kilojoule/templates/default.py
kilojoule/templates/fluids.py
kilojoule/templates/ht.py
kilojoule/templates/humidair_USCS_F.py
kilojoule/templates/humidair_default.py
kilojoule/templates/kSI.py
kilojoule/templates/kSI_C.py
kilojoule/templates/kSI_K.py
kilojoule/templates/thermo.py
tests/test_skeleton.py