"get"
*****

* Description

* Usage

* Required Parameters

* Optional Parameters

* Global Parameters

* Example using required parameter


Description
===========

Gets the health metrics for a fleet of databases in a compartment or
in a Managed Database Group. Either the CompartmentId or the
ManagedDatabaseGroupId query parameters must be provided to retrieve
the health metrics.


Usage
=====

   oci database-management fleet-health-metrics get [OPTIONS]


Required Parameters
===================

--compare-baseline-time [text]

The baseline time for metrics comparison.

--compare-target-time [text]

The target time for metrics comparison.


Optional Parameters
===================

--compare-type [text]

The time window used for metrics comparison.

Accepted values are:

   DAY, HOUR, WEEK

--compartment-id, -c [text]

The OCID of the compartment.

--filter-by-database-deployment-type [text]

The filter used to filter the databases in the fleet by a specific
Oracle Database deployment type.

--filter-by-database-sub-type [text]

The filter used to filter the databases in the fleet by a specific
Oracle Database subtype.

--filter-by-database-type [text]

The filter used to filter the databases in the fleet by a specific
Oracle Database type.

--filter-by-database-version [text]

The filter used to filter the databases in the fleet by a specific
Oracle Database version.

--filter-by-metric-names [text]

The filter used to retrieve a specific set of metrics by passing the
desired metric names with a comma separator. Note that, by default,
the service returns all supported metrics.

--from-json [text]

Provide input to this command as a JSON document from a file using the
file://path-to/file syntax.

The "--generate-full-command-json-input" option can be used to
generate a sample json file to be used with this command option. The
key names are pre-populated and match the command option names
(converted to camelCase format, e.g. compartment-id –> compartmentId),
while the values of the keys need to be populated by the user before
using the sample file as an input to this command. For any command
option that accepts multiple values, the value of the key can be a
JSON array.

Options can still be provided on the command line. If an option exists
in both the JSON document and the command line then the command line
specified value will be used.

For examples on usage of this option, please see our “using CLI with
advanced JSON options” link: https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Conte
nt/API/SDKDocs/cliusing.htm#AdvancedJSONOptions

--managed-database-group-id [text]

The OCID of the Managed Database Group.


Global Parameters
=================

Use "oci --help" for help on global parameters.

"--auth-purpose", "--auth", "--cert-bundle", "--cli-auto-prompt", "--
cli-rc-file", "--config-file", "--connection-timeout", "--debug", "--
defaults-file", "--endpoint", "--generate-full-command-json-input", "
--generate-param-json-input", "--help", "--latest-version", "--max-
retries", "--no-retry", "--opc-client-request-id", "--opc-request-id",
"--output", "--profile", "--proxy", "--query", "--raw-output", "--
read-timeout", "--realm-specific-endpoint", "--region", "--release-
info", "--request-id", "--version", "-?", "-d", "-h", "-i", "-v"


Example using required parameter
================================

Copy the following CLI commands into a file named example.sh. Run the
command by typing “bash example.sh” and replacing the example
parameters with your own.

Please note this sample will only work in the POSIX-compliant bash-
like shell. You need to set up the OCI configuration and appropriate
security policies before trying the examples.

       export compare_baseline_time=<substitute-value-of-compare_baseline_time> # https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/tools/oci-cli/latest/oci_cli_docs/cmdref/database-management/fleet-health-metrics/get.html#cmdoption-compare-baseline-time
       export compare_target_time=<substitute-value-of-compare_target_time> # https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/tools/oci-cli/latest/oci_cli_docs/cmdref/database-management/fleet-health-metrics/get.html#cmdoption-compare-target-time

       oci database-management fleet-health-metrics get --compare-baseline-time $compare_baseline_time --compare-target-time $compare_target_time
