What's new in version 1.2.8
===========================
Version available since February 19th 2024


New Features
------------
- GUI : plots are opened in matplotlib windows instead of directly in gui.
- GUI : vector inputs and outputs can be plotted.
- GUI : scrollbar added to the list of inputs and outputs of the gui.
- Notebook version of tutorial 05_SensitivityAnalysis

Changes
-------
- Interpolation of pareto fronts is better with high number of points.
- compute_external and Print functions are moved from ode_tools.py to Tools.py
- gui2.py deleted and plot_sortedX function is moved to gui1.py
- "debug" functionality in Spec class displays dictionaries instead of lists
- For Pareto with less than 10 points, interpolation is done with splprep adn splev fucntions of Scipy.
- Optimization inputs are normalized for LeastSquares algorithm.
- GUI : vectors are printed in several figures to be more ergonomic.
- files in test folder are rewritten with the "unittest" standard.
- Results are written with a dictionary for LeastSquares algorithm.
- Lower and upper bounds are excluded from optimization process to avoid numerical issues.
- GUI : sensitivity analysis of I/O vectors are printed in several figures to be more ergonomic.
- raise errors stops the code.
- NaN errors stops the code and indicates to the user which variables are concerned.
- The UML diagram was updated.
- For GUI, iteration number is not printed when graphs of variables w.r.t iterations are displayed.


Bug fixed
---------
- Optimization failed when there is a problem with one input and one equality constraint.
- In iterationHandler, command to set a value in pandas dataframe was modified to avoid errors with new versions of pandas.


Contributors
------------
Lucas Agobert
