What's new in version 1.2.5
===========================
Version available since 2nd October 2023


New Features
------------
- A new attribute "debug" in Spec class, to print values and gradient at each iteration of the optimization.
- method of Iteration class, print, returns a dataframe, more exploitable.
- method of Result class, plotResults, plots one variable per figure with their
bounds as horizontal curves, to help users to debug. It can also print vectorial
inputs and constraints.
- a new method of result class, plotPareto, to display Pareto Front easier.
- a new method of result class, addParetoList, to display several Pareto Front in one graph.
- constraints are displayed on the Pareto Front.
- method plotXY of iteration class displays two outputs per graph, and is able to display vectorial outputs.
- a new function, optim2d_weighting, to solve bi-objective optimisation problems with ponderation method
(a parameter 'method2d' is added on the optim.run function to switch between methods).
- handle exceptions when specifications variable does not belong to the model outputs.
- Normalization of inputs, outputs and gradients before optimization, to help algorithm to converge.
- When optimization does not converge, new initial random point is printed.
- New test files 'checkJacobian' and 'testSLSQP' to compare analytical jacobian and Autograd's one.
- 'ExportToXML' function also writes specifications of the optimization problem in the XML file.
- 'exclude_dominated_points' function in multi_objective files to delete 'bad' points in pareto front.
- New files 'gui1', 'gui2' and 'OpenGUI' in GUI folder, to create a Graphical User Interface to call after running optimization.


Contributors
------------
Lucas Agobert
Benoit Delinchant
